How to Integrate LLMSecurityGuard in an Organization?

Step 1 — Deploy It as a Secure Gateway

LLMSecurityGuard is deployed as a standalone API service (Flask app).

You can run it:

On a VM

In a Docker container

Inside Kubernetes

On-prem or in the cloud (AWS, Azure, GCP)

Once deployed, it becomes the mandatory entry point for all LLM requests.

Instead of:

Application → LLM

You now have:

Application → LLMSecurityGuard → LLM

Step 2 — Connect It to Your LLM Provider

Inside the gateway, configure the LLM adapter:

Cloud LLM (OpenAI, Anthropic, etc.)

Store API keys securely (env variables or secret manager)

On-prem LLM (e.g., local model or internal inference server)

Point to internal LLM endpoint

The organization does not need to modify their LLM — only redirect traffic through the gateway.

Step 3 — Integrate Authentication & RBAC

Replace the demo token system with:

OAuth / JWT

Corporate SSO

Active Directory integration

API key management system

Map users to roles:

Admin

Developer

Analyst

External user

This ensures only authorized users can submit prompts.

Step 4 — Configure Security Policies

Customize:

Risk score thresholds

Manual review triggers

Sensitive keyword lists

PII detection rules

Rate limits per user or service

Security teams define the rules based on organizational policy.

Step 5 — Connect Logging to SIEM

Export logs to:

Splunk

Datadog

ELK stack

SIEM tools

This enables:

Audit trails

Compliance reporting

Incident response

Step 6 — Enable Manual Review Workflow

High-risk prompts go to:

Internal security team

Compliance team

AI governance team

They can approve or reject flagged prompts.

This is especially useful in:

Healthcare

Finance

Government

Legal environments

What This Achieves for the Organization

Instead of trusting raw LLM calls, the organization now gets:

• Prompt injection protection
• Replay attack prevention
• Sensitive data filtering
• Audit logging
• Human-in-the-loop oversight
• Rate limiting & abuse protection
• Enterprise-grade AI governance

How LLMSecurityGuard Enables Human-in-the-Loop ?

LLMSecurityGuard implements a risk-based human approval workflow.

Step 1 — Prompt Risk Scoring

Every prompt sent to the /llm endpoint is evaluated by the input sanitizer and risk scoring engine.

The engine checks for:

Dangerous commands (delete, drop, rm -rf, shutdown)

Sensitive data requests (password, SSN, credit card)

Suspicious prompt patterns

Each prompt receives a risk score (0–100).

Step 2 — High-Risk Prompts Are Flagged

If the risk score exceeds the threshold (for example ≥ 50):

The prompt is not sent to the LLM.

Instead it is added to a manual review queue.

Example response:

{
  "risk_score": 70,
  "status": "pending_manual_review"
}
Step 3 — Prompt Added to Review Queue

The system stores the flagged prompt in:

manual_review/queue.json

Each entry contains:

user

prompt

risk_score

provider

timestamp

Step 4 — Security Team Reviews It

A human reviewer can inspect the prompt using:

CLI review tool

Run:

python -m manual_review.cli

The reviewer can:

approve

reject

skip

Example:

[a]pprove
[r]eject
[s]kip
[q]uit
Step 5 — Optional Dashboard Monitoring

The Streamlit dashboard displays:

flagged prompts

risk scores

pending reviews

Security teams can visually inspect activity.

Result

The system creates a Human-in-the-Loop governance layer, which prevents unsafe prompts from automatically reaching the LLM.

This is particularly useful in:

finance

healthcare

enterprise AI deployments

regulated environments

3) Mapping to OWASP LLM Top 10


OWASP LLM Risk	                       Mitigation in LLMSecurityGuard
Prompt Injection	                   Input sanitizer detects malicious instructions
Sensitive Information Disclosure	   Output sanitizer redacts PII
Insecure Output Handling	           Output filtering before returning response
Model Denial of Service	               Rate limiting
Improper Access Control	               Token authentication
Supply Chain Issues	                   MCP signature validation
Data Leakage	                       Sanitization and risk scoring
Model Abuse	                           Rate limits + monitoring

3. Mapping to MITRE ATLAS

MITRE ATLAS focuses on adversarial ML attacks.

ATLAS Attack	     Mitigation
Prompt Injection	 Input sanitization
Data Exfiltration	 Output filtering
Replay Attacks	     Nonce validation
Context Tampering	 HMAC signature verification
Abuse / Flooding	 Rate limiting
Unauthorized Access	 Authentication

4. Mapping to OWASP Agentic AI Security

For AI agents or autonomous workflows:

Agent Risk	                Mitigation
Tool misuse	                Risk scoring before execution
Data exfiltration	        Output sanitization
Unsafe autonomous actions	Human review gate
Prompt manipulation	        Input sanitizer

LLMSecurityGuard implements a risk-based Human-in-the-Loop workflow.
Prompts are scored by the input sanitization and risk engine, and if the score exceeds
a threshold they are blocked from reaching the LLM and placed into a manual review queue.
Security teams can review these prompts via a CLI tool or dashboard and approve or reject
them before execution.

From a security framework perspective, the project aligns with OWASP LLM Top 10 controls
(prompt injection protection, output filtering, access control, and DoS protection)
and maps to MITRE ATLAS mitigations such as replay attack prevention (nonce validation)
, context integrity via HMAC signatures, and abuse prevention through rate limiting and monitoring.